Happy Thursday, everybody.
And welcome back to the Data Science Hangout.
And let's see if we remember how to do this today.
We were on a little bit of a break for July, but so, so excited to see everybody
back here, hope everyone's having a great week.
If this is your first time joining us today, I know this is a pretty big group here today.
Uh, so it's so nice to meet you.
Thank you for spending your Thursday with all of us.
If we haven't met yet, I'm Rachel Dempsey.
I lead our pro community here at Posit.
And the Data Science Hangout is our open space to chat about data science
leadership, questions you're facing and getting to hear about what's going on in
the world of data across different industries.
And so every Thursday we feature a different, uh, data leader from the
community and together we're all dedicated to making this a
welcoming environment for everybody.
So we love hearing from everyone in this environment, no matter your
level of experience or area of work.
This is a casual conversation with us all here, but it's totally
okay to just listen in too.
But there's always three ways that you could jump in and ask questions or
provide your own perspective too.
So you can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom.
You can put questions in the Zoom chat and feel free to always put a little star
next to it if you wanted me to read it instead, maybe you're in a coffee shop or
something, or I could call on you to ask your question and introduce yourself.
And then lastly, we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions
anonymously and Hannah or someone from the team will share that in the chat.
Oh, you already did.
Thank you.
Well, I am so excited to be joined by my co-host today for the
data science hangout, Hadley Wickham.
Hadley is chief scientist at Posit and builds tools to make data
science easier, faster, and more fun.
You might know Hadley's work for packages like the Tidyverse, uh,
including ggplot2 and dplyr, much more.
Uh, but Hadley, I'd love to have you introduce yourself.
If you tell us something you like to do outside of work too, and a little bit
about what it means to be chief scientist here at Posit.
Sure thing.
Thanks for, um, thanks for having me, Rachel, for, uh, finally inviting me.
It's starting to get a little hurtful, but, uh, glad I could finally make it.
Thanks for joining us.
Uh, like outside of work, I'd say the, uh, here's have a dog.
That's Lola is a 13 year old Sharpie.
And that's pretty much what she does these days is sleep.
Uh, I write books.
Uh, this is one of my, this is one of my books that I wrote recently, uh,
to the cocktail book, cause I'm also really into cocktails.
Uh, this was, um, because I'm me, all the data for the cocktails
is stored in a YAML file.
And then it uses Quarto to, uh, turn it into a book.
And I'll show you.
So it has like a table of contents, like the primary organization
of the block is by spirit.
But, uh, because I'm extra, it also has one index that lists all of the
primary ingredients in the cocktail.
So if you want to find like something to do with orange liqueur, and then
finally it has an index by name.
So if you remember the name of the cocktail, I want to find it.
Um, so there's a like fixing the things that like annoying me about the cocktail
books that you can never find the cocktail that you're looking for, because
they're ordered in some like arbitrary thing and the indexes are so bad.
So thanks to the power of Quarto and, uh, Latex and make index.
It was really easy to make a super highly indexed book, if you ask us.
I have to ask you, what's your favorite from that book?
Uh, the favorite cocktail.
I am enjoying them cocktails.
I'm enjoying the most at the moment.
I'm not actually in that book cause I've only discovered them recently.
And I can't even remember what it's called, but it uses, um, it's rum.
It's an equal parts cocktail.
There's rum, fire, Aperol, yellow chartreuse and lime juice and rum fire.
It's this kind of like crazy over-proof, uh, Jamaican rum.
That's great.
I see there's a lot of fans here in the chat, but, um, but Hadley would love to
have you share with everybody here.
What does it actually mean to be chief scientist at Posit?
What do you, what do you do on a daily basis?
Good question.
Um, so like, you know, these days I'm, I manage a team, the tidyverse team
who's responsible for kind of not only the tidyverse packages, but also many
of the packages and the package development ecosystem, so test that in
and then also some kind of lower level packages that underpin these things,
which often live in the outlet, get up organization, but like
management is not my passion.
I would say I'm like, I do.
Okay.
Uh, but it's not like what I really enjoy and it's not where I want to spend my time.
So I try and still spend as much time as I possibly can.
Um, so yeah, that's kind of what I do on a daily basis.
Try and still spend as much time as I possibly can, like
writing both code and books.
Um, so I recently kind of realized, I just felt like, I felt like I hadn't
been like getting that much done.
And I think it was, it felt like I just sort of recognized like I was that felt
like I was probably mostly in my head, but then I realized the key reason I felt
that way as I wasn't working on a book project.
So like my, when I am working on a book, like I always get up and that's the
best thing I do for the first hour or two in the morning, uh, and it's now I've
seemed to be like addicted to writing books so that when I'm not writing a
book, I feel weird and uncomfortable.
Uh, so now that I've started work on the next book, which is going to be
called something like tidy design principles, uh, things are feeling much
better.
So, yeah, so I do some management.
I like writing books and then obviously like writing, uh, code.
Uh, and recently, uh, the packages I've been working on are not tidyverse
packages, but I've just been kind of diving and around posit various open
source packages and kind of seeing where I can pitch in and help out.
So about a year ago, I guess a long guy who helped out on the pins package.
And then more recently I've been working on the RS connect package, which helps
you deploy your apps to connect and the RN package.
Um, which helps you create reproducible environments for your archive.
So if anybody ever feels like you're not doing enough, write a book, right?
I will say like my, I will say like my advice for writing a book is that it's
easy.
You just have to write for an hour.
It's simple.
I should say you have to write for an hour every day for a year and the end of
it, have a book.
Uh, and as far as I know, no one has ever successfully followed that advice.
So not very good advice.
So we have a really big crew here today.
So I'm going to repeat how people can like ask questions and jump into,
cause I know a few people joined after, and it's so nice to see you all here.
And this is your first time joining.
So nice to meet you.
Uh, this is an informal casual conversation with us all here.
So you can ask questions and chat with us in a variety of ways.
So you could raise your hand on zoom and I'll be able to see that.
You're going to put questions in the zoom chat and then Hannah will share a
Slido link again here where you can ask questions anonymously to just want to
make sure I said that in case somebody joined after I, I put it there.
Um, but I see Mike Smith, you had a question in the chat.
Do you want to jump in here first?
Yeah, thanks.
Um, so this is, I don't know if, if you can answer it directly, Hadley, but if
you can kind of give us a feel for it.
So the tiny versus huge, it's a massive number of packages, massive number of
developers, how does Posit kind of herd the cats and making sure that all of
these different development pieces come together and work together effectively?
Yeah, I would, I'd say most of that is just like, we talk a lot amongst the
team and we talk pretty frequently about, uh, like what, you know, like what
when we're designing APIs, like, why do we favor this design over that design?
Like if we've got something that's, that's, you know, important or complex,
like that, that's something we'll talk over and a team meeting.
And that is like having multiple people think about these problems.
I think it's just the key because it's too, it really is past the point.
Anyone person can keep it all on their head and it's very easy to
accidentally introduce inconsistencies because it's, it's, it's, it's, it's
inconsistencies because you've forgotten how some function you wrote 10 years ago works.
So it's just like that.
A lot of, you know, we're a pretty close knit team that works
closely together, that's really important.
Uh, the other thing, uh, which I'm working on, which I can pop a link to
in the chat is this book called, um, tidy design principles, uh, which is
where like, now I'm trying to write up some of these principles, which is like
useful, you know, it's useful for us because it encodes, you know, codes them
in writing and we can look them up, but it was also hopeful, hopefully
useful for the community.
So you can both like see the patterns we follow and get more of a glimpse
into kind of like how we think about these things.
So the goal is to have both kind of, these are things you should do, but also
like, this is what we were thinking when we designed this interface.
Like these are the thing, like these are the trade-offs we considered.
These are all of the options we considered.
This is why we rejected this one or preferred this one.
And then, you know, looking back now, like, do we regret those choices?
Like would we have made different choices if we knew then what we do now?
I was waiting to see if you had a follow up there, Mike.
I saw you nodding.
I see.
Talking is definitely, you know, the A1 tip, but I can imagine that, you
know, from a project management perspective, it must be difficult to
ensure that all of these things just, you know, because they're like Lego
pieces, you want them to just clip together, right?
Yeah.
And definitely something we've spent a lot of time thinking about.
So I see quite a few questions starting to come in now here.
Andy, I see you asked a question in the chat about some of the books.
Do you want to jump in here?
Yes.
Thanks.
Uh, just Hadley, I saw you, I think, post on LinkedIn the other day or
somewhere about the upcoming book.
Is there a, is there a difference between the design principles and say like the
R cookbook or R recipes, or is that, is it kind of an extension of those?
Yeah.
So I, I don't know, I've written a lot of books about R now, but I would say
like, you know, I think of like R for data science is like, if you're, you
know, if you want to learn how to do data science in R. Advanced R is if
you want to learn how R works as a programming language, and there's kind
of this gap in between them, like, how do you go from, you know, someone
being just a, you know, a data scientist who is analyzing like individual
to someone who's starting to design like kind of bigger pieces of code, like
functions that you can use and multiple analysis, or maybe eventually you
collect enough of those functions.
Do you want to do a package?
So like, how do you, like when you're writing a function, like,
what do you think about?
Like, how do you, like, how do you pick the arguments?
How do you name the arguments?
How do you choose how they should interact?
So hopefully I think this is not, you know, this is a book that's, you know,
you've got to be fairly far along in your journey with R and data science,
because now you're wanting to write bigger functions, but I think this is a
pretty, this is sort of a gap in the current selection of R books, which
compared to other programming languages, just have far fewer books on kind of
like, you know, general programming topics like, like design.
Thank you.
Okay.
I'm going to ask a question over from Slido.
And as a reminder, you can ask questions anonymously there too.
But one was, have you learned anything particularly noteworthy about the
Python community and, or space since Posit's rebranding?
Uh, yes.
I don't know, like, I don't know how to put this without seeming mean, but I
don't just feel like the Python data science, but it's just like so hard to
do data science, like so many things that are like annoying from like the
environment management problem to doing things that I feel like they should be
simple and pandas to like, you know, I don't know, it just, it feels like I'm
a sort of continue to be amazed that people are as productive as they are in
Python with the tools they have on hand.
And so I think one of the things I'm kind of excited about is like Posit, you
know, starts to contribute to the space is how can we kind of bring our magic of
like, it just works into this space so that people can just like do data science
and Python without, without having to worry about all of these kinds of
extraneous things that aren't that interesting to data scientists.
Thank you.
Smita, I see you had asked a question in the chat.
Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah, so this is a question for Hedley.
When you design packages, how do you factor in security given the increasing
number of hacking and other attacks that are happening in the enterprise
space these days?
Thank you.
Yeah, I would, security is a difficult, a difficult one because I think in most,
like most of the tidyverse, it just doesn't like really apply.
Like, you know, you don't have to worry about security and ggpoc2, for example.
Like we think about it more in the packages that have to require authentication.
So typically, you know, when you're getting data, whether it's from an API or
a database, you are going to need to have a security protocol that's going to
need to store those credentials somehow.
And one of the things I've been thinking about in particular recently, as I've
been working more on like using our pro products is like you, how do you make
sure those credentials travel kind of both seamlessly and securely from wherever
you're doing the analysis to wherever you're deploying the analysis?
So currently I think we're at the stage where it's a lot around like, how do we
help our users learn the right conventions?
Like you should never be typing your password into the console because if you
do that, it's easy for it to end up saved in your data history file and it's easy
to accidentally commit that to get, and now you've shared your password with a
much wider range of people than you should be.
So at the moment, there's I think a lot of use of environment variables, which
are a little bit safer, at least because you're not storing them literally in
your code, but how can we do better at, you know, providing tools for saving
those securely and then when needed, like sharing them across from your
computer to connect or to Shiny apps or whatever.
So I think lots of questions there, not a lot of answers currently.
Sanjay, I see you had a question in the chat earlier too.
Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah.
Hi Hadley.
One thing which always intrigued me is our company always looked at purchasing
the Post-it RStudio Connect or Post-it Connect, but we never got a proper sales
pitch and could you articulate what advantages Post-it RStudio Connect has
over the open source version, please?
Yeah.
So I would say like the reason why you want Connect or it's kind of like main
value proposition to me is it helps get your data analyses out of the hands of
data scientists and into the hands of decision makers and at the end of the
day, like it doesn't matter how awesome you are as a data scientist, unless you
can show your results to people, your analyses to people in your organization
who actually need them and so Connect is really about like publishing whatever
you're doing in R to a form that other people in your organization can see,
whether that's like Shiny apps or RMark or Quota documents, or if you want to
turn those into like a scheduled report so that people are getting emailed at
9am every day with the latest results in your dashboard, it's all about like
sharing what you're doing as a data scientist and ideally like the goal of
Connect, which we're not like a hundred percent of the way there, but we're
trying to get there in the long run, very much the goal is going to do that
just by like pushing a button in your RStudio, wherever you're doing the
analysis, it should just be a single click or a single function call to get
that up so you can stay focused on the, you know, the data analysis rather than
having to worry about like running a web server, securing a web server, make
sure all the authentication is working, make sure your email jobs are getting
sent out correctly, and when those jobs fail, that you get notified that they
didn't work and all that kind of other stuff, which is like really necessary
for a product like this to work, but probably you don't care about as a data
scientist and thinking about it just gets in the way of doing your, doing
your most important work.
But quite a lot of it is achieved from RStudio open source server also, isn't it?
Right.
Like, yes, like you could be doing the analysis and the open source products,
but there's no open source tool that's quite the same as Kinect.
You can certainly string it together with a bunch of different open source
products, but I think our belief would be it's going to cost you much less time
and much less money to just buy this thing that we have built where the cost
of building it is amortized over thousands of customers rather than you
having to pay that cost yourself by developing the open source solutions
from scratch.
Got it.
Thank you.
Awesome.
Thank you for all these great questions coming in.
Libby, I see you just asked one that is getting so many hearts and reactions
right now, so I'm going to have you jump in here to ask that.
Sure.
I'm always swooping in with the touchy feely questions.
When JJ was on, he gave you a lot of credit for the culture at RStudio, now
posit, and so I was kind of wondering if there was anything that you did, any
steps that you took to kind of make sure that RStudio moved that direction or
kind of could embody the stuff that you hoped culture wise.
I'm laughing just because I think that's like classic JJ, because I think he's
way more responsible for the culture than I am, but I will say, I think the
thing that both JJ and I share is that I think like, while we are both like
really good programmers, that we don't believe that makes us like better human
beings in any way, just a skill that we happen to have.
And that I think, you know, as people with these skills, it's our responsibility
to help the people that we can help with them.
And it's just been so wonderful working with JJ and Tareef and the whole
leadership team at Posit over the last 10 years, because I think that those
values are really strongly instilled now in our company culture, that like we
try and do the right thing.
You know, we're a B Corp because we don't want to optimize for short term
profits, we want to be in this for the long term, we want to be able to make
the right decisions that help us out in the community out in the long term, not
just do what's exigent in the moment.
Thank you.
Okay.
Jumping over to one on Slido is what gaps do you see in the R ecosystem?
For example, most deep learning and AI applications are built with
PyTorch, SensorFlow and Keras.
Do you see R catching up?
Yeah, I don't see R catching up there.
I think the Python, there's just such a huge community there that R is
never going to catch up and that's fine.
Like R doesn't have to be good at everything.
R is not Python.
R can be good at like a set of really important tasks.
It doesn't have to embrace everything.
And it can do that because, you know, R is fundamentally the sort of glue
language that there's no sense amongst R users that R must be the only language
you use, you use it as much as it helps you and then you use the tools like
reticulate to talk to Python or a lot of the building stuff for talking to C and
C++ and new stuff for talking to Rust and Go that, you know, you talk to whatever
systems your data lives in from R and then you benefit from this environment
that I believe is just unparalleled for fluid, interactive data exploration.
Jesse, I see you had a question in the chat a bit earlier.
Do you want to jump in here?
And at some point, because we have so many, I might need to say first and last names.
But it's Jesse Osman.
I can ask, I can ask the question.
If you want to add any context, feel free.
But the question was when writing books using Cordo, are there any helper packages
that you would use to help format those files to actually look like books and how
do you get those Cordo files print ready?
Yeah, that's a good question.
And the answer depends a lot on kind of exactly what your target is for the
book and kind of where your skills lie.
So like for the cocktail book, that's self-published, hopefully, obviously
there's no, I'm not signing up with cocktail book publishers.
And I did that, a lot of that is kind of custom, like it uses Cordo, but it a lot of
customization with LaTeX using my limited LaTeX skills and much Googling and some
GPT to get things working.
But other stuff like the, like if you're publishing with O'Reilly, now Cordo can
output the ASCII doc, which is what O'Reilly uses.
Other publishers, like more scientific publishers, you will need to create a PDF
typically using LaTeX and then you'll need to do some customization yourself.
I think like that, that, that tool chain from LaTeX to PDF is kind of still the best
formed route.
Obviously it requires some understanding of LaTeX.
I will say that it is both like impossible to gain any meaningful understanding of
LaTeX without probably decades of work.
But fortunately, like Googling and copying and pasting and some fair amount of
frustration will typically find what you want, because pretty much everything you
want, someone has already done.
And it's just a matter of like finding the right snippet to paste in and hope it
doesn't conflict with the other snippet you pasted in.
I think like, like LaTeX is definitely in the past.
I think we're seeing kind of more tools like Pagedown where you can render like,
you know, PDF kind of quality outputs using HTML engines.
That, you know, I think solves one set of problems and introduces another.
Now you've got to learn some like CSS for customization.
But I think we'll see more and more of that in the future.
I also just don't really think about like, I still think like the primary version of
my books is the online version.
I think that is what most people read.
And I just think about the physical books as kind of like a nice offshoot that I
don't, I honestly don't really care about because I do not read physical books
anymore. So I know, I know some people do and it's nice to have them, but it's
just the online version I think is so much more important.
I love all of this conversation happening in the chat right now, too.
And just want to say, if you're joining us for the first time, that's where a lot of
people end up meeting each other, too, and like sharing helpful links with each other,
too. So feel free to jump in there.
And thank you to the Posit folks in the back end who are helping me pull out some of
the questions from there.
Alan, I see you had asked, oh, sorry, you go ahead.
Can I pull one out?
Yeah, go ahead.
I was going to ask you about these, which are actually
embroidery, Higgs Logos by Sharla
Galvan. So I have a lot of
things like that, that you might see my like a Hershey distribution,
Halloween, blushy.
I'm thinking back to the hex dress
that I saw at the RStudio conference one time, all the amazing things people make
with the hexes.
I think the most impressive conflated thing I saw was
like someone had like tidyverse hexes painted on their nails
that they'd done themselves. But that was really, really impressive to do it that
small.
Absolutely.
Alan, I see you had a question here in the chat, do you want to jump in?
I do. I put in a couple, Rachel, are you eyeballing a specific one?
You could ask your favorite one, but I see that people were
upvoting your B Corp question.
I'll go with the most recent one, yeah, the B Corp one.
I'm curious, Hadley, if in the B Corp landscape, are there
peers that look like Posit are doing similar things or are you alone?
And what's that like to either have some sort of well-trod ground to follow
or is it figuring out like every day, like strategically, what does Posit as a B
Corp do in this kind of situation?
And I'm sort of curious if that's like liberating or if it's terrifying,
like what's that like kind of to think about operationally being in that space?
I'd say we do some benchmarking against other B Corps
and the places where benchmarks are typically available.
Like I know we do like our employee kind of satisfaction surveys.
We benchmark those against other B Corps.
But I don't.
I mean, I don't really know if there are B Corps like us.
I suspect there are not.
There are just not that many like software B Corps that are not
that many open source companies.
And I guess that I don't know,
that feels kind of like more freeing to me than worrying.
You know, certainly a lot of what we do is just a standard.
You know, there's a lot of it's just kind of standard software business playbook.
But at the same time, we don't have this like
more about removing this drive to optimize short term profitability
that gives us the room to kind of,
you know, do the things that we believe to be right.
You know, as much as possible.
It's not always possible to, you know, it's like what is right
is a very complicated question, especially as the size of a company grows.
But certainly we you know, we we have more freedom
to kind of think about that and act on that.
And while, you know, certainly we still make mistakes,
I think everyone is, you know, trying to try their absolute best.
Thanks. Appreciate that.
And where is I see you ask the question here in the chat.
You want to jump in next?
Sure. I'll hop on real quick and good effort on the last name.
Oh, sorry.
Can you tell me how to say it?
It's like Ferris. Just OK.
So you've taken a lot of solutions to massive pain points
that are challenging and non-obvious.
I know if I tried to do something like GG plot,
I would make no progress whatsoever.
So I wonder, how do you find your starting points for implementation?
Like, where do you start from and how do you measure your progress
and make sure you're moving towards your end goal?
Good question.
It feels like a lot of.
The packages that I work on just have this
the sense of inevitability about them,
that these are just things that like frustrate me
and typically have frustrated me for years before, like some
kind of solution crystallizes in my head.
And then it's just a matter of like a lot of iteration.
And, you know, now I think one of the huge
advantages I have is that, you know, there's a there's a community of people
who are willing to try out like whatever crap I produce
and give me like feedback and tell me like, you know, this doesn't work
or this, I don't understand this or this is inconsistent
with a lot of our Tidyverse thing.
And that is just I find that that kind of interaction, like personally,
like, you know, highly motivating that people care when people care enough
to like critique it.
I find that to be, yeah, really motivating.
So I think that that is just that.
And some weird part of my brain that is just like collecting
these little pain points and after a while realizing that all of these pain
points, like maybe there's some root cause that I could fix all at once.
Other times it's like, let's just, you know, knock them off one by one
and then hope something falls out.
Yeah, and it's just this, I still feel like a lot of packages,
it just feels like I feel like there's a sort of compulsion to create them
that occurs inside of me at some point in my life.
Right. So it feels like you're a force of nature then.
So a Slido question somebody had asked was,
do you have any recommendations for teaching non-coder data generators
that it's good to use tidy structured data
so we can use their data so much more easily?
Yeah, I think the.
I feel like the challenge of teaching anything like this is always
you have to figure out what are the benefits to them,
not what are the benefits to you, because the benefits to you
are typically very obvious, but are not motivating to other people.
So you need to figure out, like, what's some angle where by adopting
these new ideas, can they save themselves work
or can they produce something cool?
And maybe that's like if it's not about saving,
if you can't find any way that it's going to save them work,
maybe there's something you can do with the tidy data
automatically to produce some kind of useful plot or motivating figure
that will kind of help them say like, oh, this is, you know, this is kind of fun.
So I think, yeah, like try and make it easier or try and make it more fun.
Anything else?
Like it's a hard, it's a hard road to get other people
to change their minds and to change their processes.
David Meza, I see you asked a question in the chat.
You want to jump in here next?
I did, and I apologize.
My video is not working.
Hey, Hadley, how are you doing?
Hey.
One of the questions, I had two questions.
One of them was around tidy models and better work.
They've done a lot of good work on trying to expand the MLOps
in an organization.
Any thoughts about what may be happening in the future?
How do we can get better MLOps in organizations using Fawcett?
Yeah, that's a good question.
I mean, I think our sort of hope is like as we get better
at integrating our open source tools and our professional tools,
some of that will just kind of happen naturally.
I think that's, you know, one of the things we are struggling with,
struggle with as an organization is like, how do we help these
like fairly disparate teams with quite different cultures?
Like work together and create solutions that, you know,
work for people out in the real world.
So I think that that sort of feels to me like where the missing pieces are.
Like we want to deliver these like end to end solutions which like just work.
And if we can, you know, make model deployment really easy,
model deployment and monitoring really easy for you, hopefully people will use it more.
Thank you.
I think a lot of chat about Hex tattoos, different Paws in our studio tattoos in there.
It's not exactly tattoos, I'll show you this other, this is one of my favorites.
It's a gif from my friend and colleague Winston.
It says in case, it's kind of hard to see that,
in case of emergency, break glass and it's brass knuckles with tidy
on one and data on the other.
Nice.
Let's see.
So many great questions here.
I'm trying to get to everybody's.
I see Jake, you asked, Jake Riley, you asked a question here in the chat.
Oh, yeah.
I know that there's other packages under the tidyverse,
like lubridate was a separate package that you would have to load
instead of tidyverse, but it's not included.
I was curious how you pick which packages come along.
And I'm hoping glue is next.
Glue is not next because you can already kind of get to it using STR.
Glue, because that's re-imported through.
Like glue is a little bit of a tricky candidate
because it was kind of designed to be.
Well, maybe.
Yeah, I think glue, I don't know, glue just feels like too small.
To be like at this level, especially when you can get to like 95%
of the functionality by STR underscore glue.
So generally, I think like the tidyverse now is like,
I don't see any much likelihood that membership is going to change
the next couple of years just because lubridate,
that's been a goal to get lubridate in the tidyverse, but.
Yeah, like something like five years now, and finally,
kind of all the like various bits that we had to deprecate and fix
in various places kind of felt mature enough, we could pull the trigger on that.
But so for something else to be added to the tidyverse,
like we'd have to be, you know, start work now.
And it would happen in a couple of years.
And there's nothing on the on the table currently.
Ben asked a question, I think Ben maybe had to drop for another call,
but so I'll ask it.
But the question was, while I'm bought into developing open source packages
to help deliver better processes, any advice to those of us
doing that development in getting their company buy in?
Again, it's like, how do you like, you've got to give some benefit
to the people using this.
And you've got to like either remove pain or add pleasure in some way,
because if you can't do that and you're not someone's like direct supervisor
with a lot of direct power over them, it's hard to get people to change.
So I think like to me, a lot of it's like,
well, the way I think about the tidyverse is like,
how do we give people some sort of like quick wins
so they can be motivated to do the stuff that are like slower,
where they're going to have to learn more,
like learn some new ideas or some new tools
so that you kind of build up some kind of equity with that person.
Like they build up some trust that you've helped them in the past.
And now they're willing to invest like a little bit more time
before they see the payoff.
But in the early days, it's all about like, you know,
delivering payoffs as quickly as possible.
And I think if you're doing like you're like my company's first package,
like the easy pain points are like make themes
for your company corporate style guide, like make a GG.2 theme,
make an R Markdown, a core theme, make a shiny theme that people can just use
to get, you know, something that's reasonably close
to whatever your corporate style guide dictates.
And that's just like that just feels like an easy win for people
because it makes them look good inside the corporation.
And because you've put in all this hard work, it's like three seconds
for them to type the right function and to get the right theme.
And I think the other bit is like make it easy to get access to data.
Like so set up some wrappers around DBI connections
to the most important data sources, provide some conventions
around authentication so that stuff just works so that they're not like
you're not struggling.
Like, how do I what package do I need to install?
Like, what's the password?
Where's the path I need?
Just give them some like a list of the top ten most common data sources.
And like people will love you by and large.
Thank you, Brittany, I see your hands raised.
You want to jump in here next?
Yeah, I actually had a similar question that then and I'm maybe
trying to phrase a little differently.
So when you are thinking about sort of developing maybe that first package
for your company or something of that nature, once you've identified
the things that you think would be useful for people, do you have
like a philosophy or a way in which you approach kind of putting things
together? Because I know one of the pain points is as you're developing,
you realize, oh, what I did originally doesn't quite work and not to tear
it down and kind of build it back up again.
So I don't know if you have lessons learned from developing so many
packages that we could learn from.
Yeah, that's I think that's a tough one, because I think.
Like as a team, we have got like vastly better at dealing with kind
of deprecations and breakages, and I was reminded of this recently
because I had to rebuild the first edition of Alpha Data Science and
it just works like five years later, all the code in that book still
works, which is certainly not like true.
Like five years ago, if you tried to do that with five years of code
in the tidy, it wouldn't have worked.
And, you know, I think that that that's obviously great to have that,
but it's also like a huge amount of extra work to do that.
And like we can kind of afford to spend that work.
And now we're a team of like, you know, at least my team is like six
plus full time people who can spend our time thinking about this,
because I think there's really like when you're in an environment of
like scarcity, when you've only got like so much time that you can
take out of your kind of like everyday job to invest in writing a package.
Like it's really tough to balance.
Like, how do I like add new stuff versus making sure the
old stuff continues to work?
So I don't have any great advice there.
I think, again, some of it's about coming like building up trust.
So like give people some wins so that when you do inevitably break stuff
like accidentally or on Christmas, you've got some like kind of cushion
that people aren't going to get like really angry with you right away.
They're going to be like, OK, well, you know, there's a little bit of
suffering now, but this person saved me so much time that it's not so bad.
But yeah, it's really hard.
And particularly as you're starting out, like you're going to make mistakes
like that's inevitable and you're going to do things that when you look back
a year later, you're like, why on earth did I do it that way?
And now you want to like rip out the whole thing and write it from scratch.
And I think that like if it feels horrible, but you have to remember,
like that's great because it means you've grown immensely as a programmer.
And certainly if you have like my kind of mindset, you have to like resist
the temptation to like rip things out and redo them as much as possible
and just focus on making the next generation better
rather than breaking what what what stuff people already have.
So I don't have any great answers there, but I think you've just got to think
about those tensions of like, how do I keep my forward velocity up
while getting better as a programmer while evolving over time?
But, you know, things and also thinking about how do you make the things
you did a long time ago better.
Thank you for that.
Thank you.
I see there are a few questions that mention
ChatGPT, one was from Ian.
Ianson, what is your opinion on how it will evolve
the data scientist's role in an organization?
I will caveat my remarks with I
I would say 99% of my ChatGPT
use is entirely frivolous.
I use it to make things rhyme.
I use it to make things sound like pirates.
I use it to make things sound like southern grandmas
who use a lot of country folk sayings.
I use it to make acrostics of people's names.
I use it now with the finance person I work with.
I submit requests exclusively in the form of office screenplays.
So I like I don't know, I think it's like incredibly fun
for stuff like that when I try to use it for programming.
It's been like hit or miss, like sometimes it's great
and sometimes it spits out something that looks like totally plausible,
but is utterly wrong.
So it's and it's hard for me to tell.
Like, is that just like is that ChatGPT today?
And like in a year's time, it's going to be much better.
Or is it going to be like self-driving cars
where they're kind of always coming like a year in the future
and we never quite get there?
Self-driving cars is something I think about a lot because I have a Tesla
and whenever I park it in the garage, it thinks the random collection
of tools hanging on the wall is a semi like about to crash into us.
And I'm like, it can't even handle like this.
And people say we're going to have self-driving cars.
So so I don't know, it's hard for me to say.
I'd say overall, I'm kind of like a skeptic.
I think it is going to be useful.
I think it's particularly probably hard for me to say, like in some ways,
it's going to be really useful when you're learning,
because you can take the things that are words in your head and spit them out
and say, like, how do I rotate the X axis labels on the ggplot
and get something pretty reasonable, which makes it super useful for learning.
But at the same time, as you're learning, it's going to spit out stuff
that looks totally plausible, but it's totally wrong.
And you're in the worst possible situation to try and figure out what's going on.
So I don't know. We'll see.
I think it's super exciting.
I have a lot of fun with it, but I do not use it all professionally.
It seems like there's a lot of people who think those are great use cases of it
the way you're using it.
Let me go over.
I will say I recently we had a company meeting recently
where some customers come on and I took their bios
and just made chat GPT make them rhyme.
And the people were like so impressed, so impressed.
I'm like, I just made chat GPT make it rhyme.
I see there's a lot of conversation beneath Yu's question.
Yu, do you want to jump in here?
Hi. Hi, Helene. Nice to meet you. Big fan of your work.
So my question is, what's the implementation plan of R on cloud computing platforms?
So my team works in Azure.
And how do we say using R there is very inconvenient at best.
So previously, before we moved to Azure, the work of my team,
I would say 70% in R, 30% in Python.
After moving to Azure, I quickly changed to 70% in Python, 30% in R.
So Python is just a very natural option for modeling analysis there.
So how do you plan to change this in the future?
Yeah, I mean, I don't know if change is quite the right phrase,
because I don't know if we have the power to do that.
But certainly, you know, what we are trying to do is make R
as easy as possible to use everywhere you can possibly use it.
And, you know, I think thinking about like as more and more people move to cloud
computing, how can we make it easy to get set up and get configured
and make things just work is really important.
I know like one example at the moment is we're working on a partnership
with Databricks to make using R inside Databricks clusters much, much easier.
Certainly, like this seems like there's a lot of like just challenges
getting things set up there that, you know, folks have kind of solved
on the Python side and no one has put the time into solving on the R side.
So I'm hoping that, you know, as a company, we'll continue to invest
in those opportunities, just make it easy to use for everyone.
Lisa, I see you had a question earlier on ggplot2, do you want to jump in?
Sure. I think I have two questions about ggplot2, but I think I'll go with the first one,
which is sort of how do you feel about
people contributing, having so many people
contributing to that package and like all the add-ons that have come from it?
Sort of like any any things that sort of amazed you
and then on the opposite side, any sort of major frustrations?
Yeah, I mean, I think the thing that's kind of kind of blows my mind about ggplot2
is it's like coming up to it's going to come up to its 18th birthday fairly soon.
So I'm sort of joking about that will be time to like emancipate it.
And that's going to just have to like survive by itself from now on.
And kind of realistically, like I'm not that involved in the day to day
management of ggplot2 anymore.
That torch is going to be passed to Thomas Peterson.
It was now, you know, starting to get, you know, like, I guess
four years ago, I was like sick of maintaining ggplot2.
I've been long ago, sick of maintaining a hired Thomas.
And now Thomas is getting sick of maintaining it.
So we've got to like figure out what to do next.
But yeah, like maintaining something that is like so popular
is, you know, both a blessing and a curse.
It's like incredible to know that, you know, literally millions of people
have used it and it's helped them, you know, make graphs and make your life easier.
But it also is like immensely challenging to make any changes
because like so many people rely on it now and are used to the defaults.
So there's there's something like I think both.
I don't know if I can quickly pull this off, but like one thing I think about
a little. A little bit from time to time, it's just like how many people
like if I find the most.
Popular, yeah, so the most popular page on the ggplot2
website is the Geom Bar documentation,
which 15,000 people have read in the last month.
Like there are not many ways you can reach, like
you can have more of an impact on people's lives by looking at that page
about bar charts and thinking, how can we make that better?
But at the same time, those changes tend to be kind of small and incremental.
So it's also like fun to like, you know, embark on completely new projects
that no one uses, so you're free to do whatever you want.
And in some ways, I think like the ecosystem of packages
is kind of it takes a combination of those strengths and those weaknesses
because like ggplot2 can like stay the same and stable,
whereas you can continue to like build on top of it
with these packages that fewer people use, but are also like much more
easier to change and flexible.
So I definitely have like mixed feelings about like this.
But both like it's awesome, like when people use my stuff
and you know, that just feels so good.
But it's also like, oh, now I have to like answer their questions
and I can't just change things willy nilly.
So I also do like working on things that no one uses.
That's also a different a different kind of fun.
At least something that's like stood out in my mind that I've learned
from you from internal company calls is how you handle focus time
and the way you you manage your own time.
And I thought it might be helpful just to chat a little bit about that
and to share how you think about that.
Yeah, I once sort of one funny anecdote, I gave a talk about this idea
of focus time and a couple of years ago, probably now at the company.
And I was like, I feel like the truest expression of my philosophy
would be to say, no, I'm not going to give a talk about focus time
because that's going to interrupt my work for the day.
But I really try to like create a lot of time
for like uninterrupted work, because I think, you know, like programming
is like fundamentally creative work
and like finding the time to kind of like process
and think things through is is really important.
So what my what I do currently is I like every day, as I said, I try
and like first thing I do, I get up and write for a couple of hours
or an hour at least.
That's like the time of the day where I am most productive.
And so I want to spend on the things I think are most important,
you know, not the things that are necessary, most urgent.
And then, you know, I have a team, so I have to I have to talk to them.
But and I have to talk to my colleagues that, of course, I love talking to.
But it means I can't do other work.
So my kind of compromise is I've got two days a week off on my calendar,
Tuesdays and Thursdays, where I try really, really hard not to do these things.
You know, sometimes if there's like a bigger meeting, there's like 15 people
and it's impossible to find the time.
Otherwise, I'll do it.
But I really generally pretty good about keeping those days clear
so I can tackle bigger problems.
And I think that's, you know, really important.
It's it's, of course, challenging because you have when you've got a big
four hour block of time, you still have to like train yourself to like
resist the temptations of TikTok and
Mastodon or certainly that
temptation of Twitter has been totally removed from me today these days.
So I guess that's good.
But certainly, like you have to train yourself to like, you know, hard
to like stay focused on one thing and not given to all the other
more fun distractions that you have around you.
But giving yourself that space, I think, is really important.
Thank you so much.
I know this hour always goes by very quickly
and there's so many great questions.
So maybe I can collect those and share them with you at some point, Hadley,
and we can think about how to answer them all.
But another question I'd love to ask you is,
are there any books you'd recommend to this audience here or resources
you'd recommend that have been useful for you in your career?
Yeah, let me show you if I can find.
The ones I like the most, I keep around.
Yeah. This is one of the books that's kind of been inspiring
or has inspired the Tidyverse design book.
It's called A Pattern Language.
It's actually a book about architecture and how you design houses.
It's just a really like, you know, it's a very thick book,
but it's designed to be kind of skimmable.
I think it's just sort of fun and interesting to read about.
And this like system of describing all of these components,
it's really interesting to read about.
of describing all of these components, the different levels of hierarchy
and how you can join them together, I think is very much
connected to programming.
I'll also say like one, one reason I stopped reading physical books
is like, I look at these books now and I'm like, oh, my God,
why is the font so small?
But it's because I am
becoming middle aged and becoming increasingly short sighted,
which sucks.
I don't know, I think that's the book I've been thinking about like the most
lately, some of the other ones, I guess I've
gotten rid of because I have limited book space
and I kind of like keeping these.
I'm also this collection of like,
you know, fairly historical books.
This is like from 1923, because there's just so much.
When you kind of look back at what people were doing
like 100 years ago, like I think it's really revealing
that in many cases, like the quality of visualizations
is not improved that much, like the quality of the best visualizations
is not improved a huge amount in the last 100 years.
But the ease of making them like now you can like whip out 15 variations
and GG plot in 15 minutes, whereas before you were like painstakingly
draw them all out with pen and ink.
So I think it's just sort of interesting to reflect on that a little bit.
And like what's what's changed really in visualization in the last 100 years?
I know we're at the end here, but maybe one inspirational
question to ask you, what's something that you're
you're most excited about as you think about
the tidyverse and Posit going forward?
And I am like legitimately really excited about us embracing Python more.
You know, I'm still using Python, but I went to a Python conference
recently and talked to a bunch of people using Python.
And I'm just excited about helping out all these Python using data scientists
because it just feels like this Posit, you know, it's like,
it feels like this Posit, like it just works type stuff.
There's just a huge, huge scope for that.
And I'm excited to kind of help spread that like
the Posit way of doing things, the Posit kind of community,
how we think about people and try and spread that further and further in the world.
Thank you so much, Hadley.
Is that our new slogan? It just works.
I think it should be.
We're not like, we're certainly not there everywhere,
but I just think that's like, that's what the best experience you can deliver.
You just try something out and it works.
And people stop remarking on that because it just works.
They don't have to think about that.
And I think that's, I will say, I think some of the best packages
that me and my team have created are almost invisible
because they just make problems go away and you never need to think about them.
You never need to know about them because that's just some pain.
You never need to experience.
And then you can just listen to all the old
thoughts cranking on about how terrible it was back in the day
and how they had to trudge barefoot to school and three feet of snow
and just listen to their stories and be happy.
You don't live in that environment anymore.
Thank you so much again for joining us today, Hadley.
And thank you all so much for for joining the hangout today
and and making this space what it is.
Pretty impressive to have over 200 people on a Zoom call
and not have to worry about what's happening.
And thank you all for monitoring the space, too.
If this was your first hangout, we would absolutely love to have you join us again.
So again, they happen every Thursday, same time, same place.
I'll put the link again where you can just add it to your calendar.
But next week, we'll be joined by Mike Lopez,
senior director of football data and analytics at the NFL.
So he'll be our feature leader next week.
And if you have any questions about it or want to reach out to me,
feel free to connect on LinkedIn as well.
Thank you all so much for joining today and have a great,
great rest of the day, great rest of the week.
Bye, everybody.
Thanks, Rachel.
Thanks, everyone.
Bye.